[ADD] maintenance: add reporting doc (#9430)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/maintenance/maintenance_reporting.rst

=====================
Maintenance reporting
=====================

Odoo *Maintenance* tracks both current and past maintenance requests in a reporting dashboard. Users
can access the *Maintenance Requests* report to measure information in different reporting views to
help make informed decisions about equipment, and plan corrective and preventive maintenance.

.. _maintenance/reporting/dashboard:

Reporting dashboard
===================

To view the *Maintenance* reporting dashboard, navigate to :menuselection:`Maintenance app -->
Reporting --> Maintenance Requests`. Doing so displays the :guilabel:`Maintenance Requests` report
overview.

> By default, the report is displayed in the :guilabel:`Graph` view, in :guilabel:`Bar Chart` form,

Author: I'm not seeing a stacked emoji that matches, but I added the graph and bar chart ones - suggestion implemented ✅

with the :guilabel:`Stacked` data display.

> To read about view types, skip to the :ref:`Reporting views <maintenance/reporting/view-types>`

Author: Good idea! Suggestion implemented ✅

section.

From the :guilabel:`Maintenance Requests` report overview, click :guilabel:`Measures`, and select

> how to measure the information. By default, the :guilabel:`Count` measure is displayed.

Author: Added that it is a button - Suggestion implemented ✅

> how to measure the information. By default, the :guilabel:`Count` measure is displayed.

Author: Added that in here - Suggestion implemented ✅

Next to :guilabel:`Measures`, click :guilabel:`Insert in Spreadsheet` to open a pop-up window
reading :guilabel:`Select a spreadsheet to insert your graph.`. Select a spreadsheet from the
:guilabel:`Spreadsheets` tab, or click the :guilabel:`Dashboards` tab, and select a dashboard to

> insert the graph. Once ready, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to close the pop-up window.

Author: Good idea - broke this up and put a sentence in there. Suggestion implemented ✅

.. image:: maintenance_reporting/maintenance-reporting-spreadsheet-popup.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Select a spreadsheet to insert your graph pop-up window.

> Filters, Group By, and Favorites

Reviewer: You can add a link to the basic documentation at the end of this section about the reporting views, etc.

Author: Nice idea - added. Suggestion implemented ✅

--------------------------------

To add and remove filters for sorting data on the :guilabel:`Maintenance Requests` report, click the
:icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(caret down)` icon, to the right of the search bar at the top of
the page.

To group the requests in the report by specific groupings, click the :icon:`oi-group`
:guilabel:`(Group By)` icon, and select the desired grouping. To add a custom grouping, click
:guilabel:`Add Custom Group`, and select an option from the resulting drop-down menu.

.. image:: maintenance_reporting/maintenance-reporting-search-bar-menu.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Favorites, Group By, and Favorites in search bar drop-down menu.

> The left-hand column of the resulting drop-down menu lists all the different :guilabel:`Filters`

Author: Just checked, and we do! Added it in. Suggestion implemented ✅

users can select. By default, :guilabel:`Active` is selected, so all open requests are displayed.

.. tip::
   To add a custom filter to the :guilabel:`Maintenance Requests` report, click :guilabel:`Add
   Custom Filter`, under the :guilabel:`Filters` section of the drop-down menu. This opens an
   :guilabel:`Add Custom Filter` pop-up window.

   From this pop-up window, configure the properties of the new rule for the filter. Once ready,
   click :guilabel:`Add`.

The right-hand column of the drop-down menu lists the :guilabel:`Favorites`, or any searches that
have been saved as a favorite to be revisited at a later date.

To save a new :guilabel:`Favorite` search, select the desired :guilabel:`Filters`. Then, click
:guilabel:`Save current search`. In the field directly below :guilabel:`Save current search`, assign

> a name to the search.

Author: Nice catch - Suggestion implemented ✅

Under the assigned name, there are two options, to save the current search either as the
:guilabel:`Default filter`, or as a :guilabel:`Shared` filter.

Selecting :guilabel:`Default filter` sets this filter as the default when opening this calendar

> view.

Author: Nice catch - I worded it incorrectly. Suggestion implemented ✅

Selecting the :guilabel:`Shared` filter makes this filter available to other users.

Once ready, click :guilabel:`Save`. When clicked, the new :guilabel:`Favorite` filter appears in the
:guilabel:`Favorites` column, and a gold :icon:`fa-star` :guilabel:`(gold star)` icon appears with

> the filter's name in the search bar.

Author: Agreed - eliminated the first one - Suggestion implemented ✅

.. _maintenance/reporting/view-types:

Reporting views
===============

The :guilabel:`Maintenance Requests` report is available in six different views, appearing in order
from left to right: :guilabel:`Graph` (default), :guilabel:`Pivot`, :guilabel:`Kanban`,
:guilabel:`List`, :guilabel:`Calendar`, and :guilabel:`Activity`.

.. image:: maintenance_reporting/maintenance-reporting-view-types.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Different view type icons for maintenance requests report.

Graph view
----------

> Click the :icon:`fa-area-chart` :guilabel:`(area chart)` icon to change to graph view.

Reviewer: I know the icon is called the "area chart" but the rollover says "Graph" so I believe you can say:

:icon:`fa-area-chart` :guilabel:`(Graph)` icon

This is also less confusing to the reader I think.

Author: I agree with that logic - made the change - Suggestion implemented ✅

With the graph view selected, the following options appear between the search bar and visual
representation of the data. These graph-specific options are located to the right of the

> :guilabel:`Measures` and :guilabel:`Insert in Spreadsheet` buttons.

Reviewer: I think you can remove the 'Measures' reference since it's to the immediate right of the Insert in Spreadsheet?

Author: Good call - Suggestion implemented ✅

Click the :icon:`fa-line-chart` :guilabel:`(line chart)` icon to switch to a line chart. When
viewing the data as a :guilabel:`Line Chart` graph, the data can be formatted in the following ways:

- :guilabel:`Stacked`: the data is stacked on the graph.
- :guilabel:`Cumulative`: the data is increasingly accumulated.
- :guilabel:`Descending`: the data is displayed in descending order.
- :guilabel:`Ascending`: the data is displayed in ascending order.

Click the :icon:`fa-pie-chart` :guilabel:`(pie chart)` icon to switch to a pie chart. When viewing
the data as a :guilabel:`Pie Chart` graph, all relevant data is displayed by default, and no
additional formatting options are available.

Pivot view
----------

Click the :icon:`oi-view-pivot` :guilabel:`(pivot view)` icon to change to pivot view.

With the :guilabel:`Pivot` view selected, maintenance requests are displayed in a pivot table, and
can be customized to show different data metrics.

To add more data to the pivot table, click the :guilabel:`Measures` button to reveal a drop-down
menu. By default, :guilabel:`Count` is selected. Additional options to add to the table are

> :guilabel:`Additional Leaves to Plan Ahead`, :guilabel:`Duration`, and :guilabel:`Repeat Every`.

Reviewer: You could define what each one does/shows?

Author: Added that in - Suggestion implemented ✅

.. image:: maintenance_reporting/maintenance-reporting-pivot-measures.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Measures options on Pivot view page.

To the right of the :guilabel:`Insert in Spreadsheet` button are three buttons:

- :guilabel:`Flip axis`: the x and y axis of the pivot data table flip.
- :guilabel:`Expand all`: all the available rows and columns of the pivot data table expand fully.

> - :guilabel:`Download xlsx`: the pivot data table is downloaded as an .xlsx file.

Reviewer: You can add the icons here, too, if you want

Author: I am only seeing a correct representation of the download icon, so to keep it consistent and not have 1/3, I'm going to leave it as is... but if I get the same feedback again I will implement!

Kanban view
-----------

Click the :icon:`oi-view-kanban` :guilabel:`(Kanban view)` icon to change to Kanban view.

With the :guilabel:`Kanban` view, all open maintenance requests are displayed in Kanban-style

> columns, in their respective stages of the maintenance process.

Reviewer: By default (in my runbot) the Repaired and Scrap are folded- might want to add that, if that is the default?

Author: Added that in! Suggestion implemented ✅

  the :guilabel:`Kanban` view type.
- :guilabel:`Request Confirmed`: when this box is not ticked, and the maintenance request type is
  set to *Work Center*, no leave is created for the respective work center when a maintenance
  request is created. If the box *is* ticked, the work center is automatically blocked for the
  listed duration, either at the specified date, or as soon as possible, if the work center is
  unavailable.
- :guilabel:`Sequence`: the order in the maintenance process, in which this stage appears.
- :guilabel:`Request Done`: if ticked, this box indicates this stage is the final step of the
  maintenance process. Requests moved to this stage are closed.

Once ready, click :guilabel:`Save & Close`.

List view
---------

Click the :icon:`oi-view-list` :guilabel:`(list view)` icon to change to list view.

With the :guilabel:`List` view selected, all open maintenance requests are displayed in a list, with
information about each request listed in its respective row.

The columns of information displayed in this view type are the following:

- :guilabel:`Subjects`: the name assigned to the maintenance request.

> - :guilabel:`Request Date`: the date on which the maintenance request was created.

Reviewer: This does not appear in my runbot- maybe check to see if this is a default item? It didn't even show up under the additional items icon, so I am not sure if this is abailable? I am in a 17.0 runbot though.

Author: I'm not seeing it now either, guessing it was a custom field added. Suggestion implemented ✅

button. Clicking this button resets the calendar to view today's date, no matter which point in time
is being viewed before clicking it.

At the far-right side of the page is a sidebar column, containing a minimized calendar set to
today's date, and a :guilabel:`Technician` list, displaying all the *Technicians* with requests
currently open. Click the :icon:`oi-panel-right` :guilabel:`(panel)` icon at the top of this sidebar
to open or close the sidebar.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Technician` list only displays if technicians are assigned to open requests, and
   individual technicians are only listed, if they are listed as :guilabel:`Responsible` on at least
   **one** maintenance request form.

Activity view
-------------

With the :guilabel:`Activity` view selected, all open maintenance requests are listed in their own
row, with the ability to schedule activities related to those requests.

Maintenance requests are listed in the :guilabel:`Maintenance Request` column as activities.
Clicking a request opens a :guilabel:`Maintenance Request` popover that indicates the status of the
request, and the responsible technician. To schedule an activity directly from the popover, click

> :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`(Schedule an activity)`. This opens a :guilabel:`Schedule Activity`

Reviewer: General comment- because there ar eno acitvities in my runbot, all I see is a +Schedule Activity button beneath the list view - when I click it, it first takes me to this:
![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/121518652/3a32bcb5-ee16-458b-92bf-0e8139402bcd)

Author: That's a good point, I see what you're saying. I added in a note admonition to explain what to do when nothing is listed there, so that info is there too. Suggestion implemented ✅

Reporting views
===============

The :guilabel:`Maintenance Requests` report is available in six different views, appearing in order
from left to right: :guilabel:`Graph` (default), :guilabel:`Pivot`, :guilabel:`Kanban`,
:guilabel:`List`, :guilabel:`Calendar`, and :guilabel:`Activity`.

.. image:: maintenance_reporting/maintenance-reporting-view-types.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Different view type icons for maintenance requests report.

Graph view
----------

Click the :icon:`fa-area-chart` :guilabel:`(Graph)` icon to change to graph view.

With the graph view selected, the following options appear between the search bar and visual
representation of the data. These graph-specific options are located to the right of the
:guilabel:`Insert in Spreadsheet` button.

.. image:: maintenance_reporting/maintenance-reporting-graph-view-types.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Graph type icons on Graph view page.

There are three different types of graphs available to users to view the data:

- :guilabel:`Bar Chart`: the data is displayed in a bar chart.
- :guilabel:`Line Chart`: the data is displayed in a line chart.
- :guilabel:`Pie Chart`: the data is displayed in a pie chart.

> Click the :icon:`fa-bar-chart` :guilabel:`(bar chart)` icon to switch to a bar chart. When viewing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the :icon:`fa-bar-chart` :guilabel:`bar chart` icon to switch to a bar chart. When viewing
```

> the data as a :guilabel:`Bar Chart` graph, the data can be formatted in the following ways:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the data as a bar chart graph, the data can be formatted in the following ways:
```

- :guilabel:`Stacked`: the data is stacked on the graph.
- :guilabel:`Descending`: the data is displayed in descending order.
- :guilabel:`Ascending`: the data is displayed in ascending order.

> Click the :icon:`fa-line-chart` :guilabel:`(line chart)` icon to switch to a line chart. When

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the :icon:`fa-line-chart` :guilabel:`line chart` icon to switch to a line chart. When
```

> viewing the data as a :guilabel:`Line Chart` graph, the data can be formatted in the following ways:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
viewing the data as a line chart graph, the data can be formatted in the following ways:
```

- :guilabel:`Stacked`: the data is stacked on the graph.
- :guilabel:`Cumulative`: the data is increasingly accumulated.
- :guilabel:`Descending`: the data is displayed in descending order.
- :guilabel:`Ascending`: the data is displayed in ascending order.

> Click the :icon:`fa-pie-chart` :guilabel:`(pie chart)` icon to switch to a pie chart. When viewing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the :icon:`fa-pie-chart` :guilabel:`pie chart` icon to switch to a pie chart. When viewing
```

> the data as a :guilabel:`Pie Chart` graph, all relevant data is displayed by default, and no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the data as a pie chart graph, all relevant data is displayed, by default, and no
```

additional formatting options are available.

Pivot view
----------

> Click the :icon:`oi-view-pivot` :guilabel:`(pivot view)` icon to change to pivot view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the :icon:`oi-view-pivot` :guilabel:`pivot view` icon to change to pivot view.
```

> With the :guilabel:`Pivot` view selected, maintenance requests are displayed in a pivot table, and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the pivot view selected, maintenance requests are displayed in a pivot table, which
```

can be customized to show different data metrics.

To add more data to the pivot table, click the :guilabel:`Measures` button to reveal a drop-down
menu. By default, :guilabel:`Count` is selected. Additional options to add to the table are
:guilabel:`Additional Leaves to Plan Ahead`, :guilabel:`Duration`, and :guilabel:`Repeat Every`.

:guilabel:`Additional Leaves to Plan Ahead` displays all employee leaves for users assigned to
maintenance requests. :guilabel:`Duration` reveals the duration spent on each maintenance request.
:guilabel:`Repeat Every` displays all maintenance requests, past and present.

.. image:: maintenance_reporting/maintenance-reporting-pivot-measures.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Measures options on Pivot view page.

> To the right of the :guilabel:`Insert in Spreadsheet` button are three buttons:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To the right of the :guilabel:`Insert in Spreadsheet` button, there are three buttons:
```

- :guilabel:`Flip axis`: the x and y axis of the pivot data table flip.
- :guilabel:`Expand all`: all the available rows and columns of the pivot data table expand fully.
- :guilabel:`Download xlsx`: the pivot data table is downloaded as an .xlsx file.

Kanban view
-----------

> Click the :icon:`oi-view-kanban` :guilabel:`(Kanban view)` icon to change to Kanban view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the :icon:`oi-view-kanban` :guilabel:`Kanban view` icon to change to Kanban view.
```

> With the :guilabel:`Kanban` view, all open maintenance requests are displayed in Kanban-style

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the Kanban view, all open maintenance requests are displayed in Kanban-style
```

> columns, in their respective stages of the maintenance process. By default, the :guilabel:`Repaired`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
columns, and placed in their respective stages of the maintenance process. By default, the :guilabel:`Repaired`
```

and :guilabel:`Scrap` columns are folded in the Kanban view.

Each maintenance request appears on its own task card, and each task card can be dragged-and-dropped
to a different stage of the Kanban pipeline.

Each column has a name (i.e. :guilabel:`In Progress`). Hovering at the top of a column reveals a
:icon:`fa-cog` :guilabel:`(cog)` icon. Clicking the :icon:`fa-cog` :guilabel:`(cog)` icon reveals a
list of options for that column: :guilabel:`Fold`, :guilabel:`Edit`, :guilabel:`Automations`, and
:guilabel:`Delete`.

.. image:: maintenance_reporting/maintenance-reporting-kanban-columns.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Column options for stage in Kanban view.

Clicking :guilabel:`Fold` folds the column to hide its contents.

Clicking :guilabel:`Edit` opens an :guilabel:`Edit: (stage name)` pop-up window, with the
corresponding stage name, wherein the column's details can be edited. The following are the column
options that can be edited:

.. image:: maintenance_reporting/maintenance-reporting-stage-edit-popup.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Edit In Progress pop-up window.

- :guilabel:`Name`: the name of the stage in the Kanban pipeline.

> - :guilabel:`Folded in Maintenance Pipe`: when checked, this stage's column is folded by default in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Folded in Maintenance Pipe`: when this checkbox is ticked, this stage's column is folded, by default, in
```

>   the :guilabel:`Kanban` view type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  the Kanban view type.
```

> - :guilabel:`Request Confirmed`: when this box is not ticked, and the maintenance request type is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Request Confirmed`: when this checkbox is not ticked, and the maintenance request type is
```

  set to *Work Center*, no leave is created for the respective work center when a maintenance

>   request is created. If the box *is* ticked, the work center is automatically blocked for the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  request is created. If the checkbox *is* ticked, the work center is automatically blocked for the
```

  listed duration, either at the specified date, or as soon as possible, if the work center is
  unavailable.
- :guilabel:`Sequence`: the order in the maintenance process, in which this stage appears.

> - :guilabel:`Request Done`: if ticked, this box indicates this stage is the final step of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Request Done`: if this checkbox is ticked, that indicates this stage is the final step of the
```

  maintenance process. Requests moved to this stage are closed.

Once ready, click :guilabel:`Save & Close`.

List view
---------

> Click the :icon:`oi-view-list` :guilabel:`(list view)` icon to change to list view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the :icon:`oi-view-list` :guilabel:`list view` icon to change to list view.
```

> With the :guilabel:`List` view selected, all open maintenance requests are displayed in a list, with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the list view selected, all open maintenance requests are displayed in a list, with
```

information about each request listed in its respective row.

The columns of information displayed in this view type are the following:

- :guilabel:`Subjects`: the name assigned to the maintenance request.
- :guilabel:`Employee`: the employee who originally created the maintenance request.
- :guilabel:`Technician`: the technician responsible for the maintenance request.

> - :guilabel:`Category`: the category the equipment being repaired belongs to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Category`: the category of the equipment that is being repaired belongs to.
```

> - :guilabel:`Stage`: the stage of the maintenance process the request is currently in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Stage`: the stage of the maintenance process that the request is currently in.
```

> - :guilabel:`Company`: if in a multi-company environment, the company in the database the request is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Company`: if in a multi-company environment, the company in the database that the request is
```

  assigned to.

Calendar view
-------------

> Click the :icon:`fa-calendar` :guilabel:`(calendar)` icon to change to calendar view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the :icon:`fa-calendar` :guilabel:`calendar` icon to change to calendar view.
```

   :align: center
   :alt: Calendar period drop-down menu options.

To the left of this menu, there is a :icon:`fa-arrow-left` :guilabel:`(left arrow)` icon and a
:icon:`fa-arrow-right` :guilabel:`(right arrow)` icon. Clicking these arrows moves the calendar
backward or forward in time, respectively.

To the right of the drop-down menu set to :guilabel:`Week`, by default, is a :guilabel:`Today`
button. Clicking this button resets the calendar to view today's date, no matter which point in time
is being viewed before clicking it.

At the far-right side of the page is a sidebar column, containing a minimized calendar set to
today's date, and a :guilabel:`Technician` list, displaying all the *Technicians* with requests
currently open. Click the :icon:`oi-panel-right` :guilabel:`(panel)` icon at the top of this sidebar
to open or close the sidebar.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Technician` list only displays if technicians are assigned to open requests, and
   individual technicians are only listed, if they are listed as :guilabel:`Responsible` on at least
   **one** maintenance request form.

Activity view
-------------

> With the :guilabel:`Activity` view selected, all open maintenance requests are listed in their own

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the :icon:`fa-clock-o` :guilabel:`activity view` selected, all open maintenance requests are listed in their own
```
just to keep things uniform with how the other sections were formatted

row, with the ability to schedule activities related to those requests.

Maintenance requests are listed in the :guilabel:`Maintenance Request` column as activities.

> Clicking a request opens a :guilabel:`Maintenance Request` popover that indicates the status of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Clicking a request opens a :guilabel:`Maintenance Request` popover window that indicates the status of the
```

> request, and the responsible technician. To schedule an activity directly from the popover, click

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
request, and the responsible technician. To schedule an activity directly from the popover window, click
```

> :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`(Schedule an activity)`. This opens a :guilabel:`Schedule Activity`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Schedule an activity`. This opens a :guilabel:`Schedule Activity`
```

pop-up window.

.. note::

>    If there are *no* active maintenance requests listed, click :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`(Schedule
>    activity)`, on the footer row of the page. Doing so opens a :guilabel:`Search: Maintenance
>    Request` pop-up window, where an existing request can be selected, or a new request can be
>    created by clicking :guilabel:`New`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   If there are *no* active maintenance requests listed, click :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Schedule
   activity`, beneath the rows. Doing so opens a :guilabel:`Search: Maintenance
   Request` pop-up window, where an existing request can be selected, or a new request can be
   created by clicking :guilabel:`New`.
```

> From the pop-up window, choose the :guilabel:`Activity Type`, provide a :guilabel:`Summary`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a selection is made from the pop-up window, choose the :guilabel:`Activity Type`, provide a :guilabel:`Summary`,
```

schedule a :guilabel:`Due Date`, and choose the responsible user in the :guilabel:`Assigned to`
field.

.. image:: maintenance_reporting/maintenance-reporting-activity-popup.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Schedule Activity pop-up window.

Type any additional notes for the new activity in the blank space under the greyed-out
:guilabel:`Log a note...` field. When clicked, this changes to :guilabel:`Type "/" for commands`.

Once ready, click :guilabel:`Schedule` to schedule the activity. Alternatively, click
:guilabel:`Schedule & Mark as Done` to close the activity, click :guilabel:`Done & Schedule Next` to
close the activity and open a new one, or click :guilabel:`Cancel` to cancel the activity.

With the :guilabel:`Activity` view selected, each activity type available when scheduling an

> activity is listed as its own column. These columns are :guilabel:`Email`, :guilabel:`Call`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
activity is listed as its own column. These columns are: :guilabel:`Email`, :guilabel:`Call`,
```
